Player Commands
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

c
Syntax: .c [message]
Function: Use to send messages to all players with in your guild.
Notes: type just .c to set your guild chat options.


consider
Syntax: .consider
Function: allows a player to get information on their murdercounts.


flip
Syntax: .flip
Function: Allows a player to change the direction of certain items (Chairs, ect)

Motd
Syntax: .motd
Function: Displays the shards message of the day.


resign
Syntax: .resign
Function: Allows a player to resign from a guild.


Counselor Commands
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Concealme
Syntax: .concealme [level]
Function: Allows you to move while hidden. Optional parameter level allows you to be conceacled to those the level selected and below. You can never conceal yourself to those the same level or higher than you.


Counpage
Syntax: .counpage
Function: Displayes the page queue for councelors.


Disable
Syntax: .disable [priv] 
Function: disables an access privilage granted to a player with granpriv.
Example .disable invul


Enable
Syntax: .enable [priv] 
Function: enables an access privilage granted to a player with granpriv.
Example .enable invul


Fetch
Syntax: .fetch
Function: moves a targeted player or npc to your location. Useful for helping players that are stuck.


GM Broadcast
Syntax: .gmbcast [message]:
Function: Allows the initiator to broadcast a global message to all gms online.  Only Gms will hear the message.


Goto 
Syntax: .goto [player name] 
Function: Teleports you to the given player. typing .goto without a player name will display a list of all players to choose from.


Msg 
Syntax: .msg [player name] 
Function: Will prompt for a message to send privately to the given player. Typing .msg without the player name will display a list of all online players to choose from.


Mtele 
Syntax: .mtele 
Function: Teleports you to multiple targetted tiles. Hit ESC to cancel.


Nsight
Syntax: .nsight
Function: Sets your lightlevel to daylight (0) for a duration of 600 seconds.


Tele 
Syntax: .tele 
Function: Teleports you to the targetted tile.  


Time 
Syntax: .time 
Function: Prints the time of day.  
Notes: Military time. (24:00) 


Unconcealme 
Syntax: .unconcealme 
Function: Unconceals you. Used with .concealme.


Seer Commands
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Addgoloc
Syntax: .addgoloc
Function: Adds a new location to use with the .go command. Type .addgoloc and target the area to use as the location. Then type in a name for your location!  NOTE: This is saved by character name.  Locations will not be available to other characters or if you .rename to a variant.


Bank
Syntax: .bank
Function: Opens your own bankbox wherever you are in the world. However, moving will make it close again.


Booklock
Syntax: .booklock
Function: Makes targeted book readonly.


Broadcast
Syntax: .bcast [message]:
Function: Allows the initiator to broadcast a global message


Broadcast As
Syntax: .bcastas [name] [Message]:
Function: Allows the initiator to broadcast a global message as another name (or anonymous if name is not specified).
Example: .bcastas Bucon: You shall all perish, mortals.


Copylook
Syntax: .copylook
Allows you to diguise yourself as any npc including name, graphic, clothing ect.


Create 
Syntax: .create {objtype or name} {amount} 
Function: .create with no parameters brings up a small item creation menu. Otherwise, creates the specified item amount times (amount defaults to 1).  


Create At 
Syntax: .createat {objtype or name} {amount} 
Function: Same as .create but it prompts for a target to create the item at.  


Create Light Source
Syntax: .createlightsource
Function: creates a magical lightsource can follow you or any player with the follow or followme command.


Create NPC
Syntax: .createnpc [template]
Function: Creates a single NPC of the specified type. Templates are defined in npcdesc.cfg.
Example: .createnpc walrus


Createstack
Syntax: .createstack [objtype / itemdesc] [amount]
Function: Creates a stack of the specified objtype and amount. Non-stackable items will only use one graphic, but show the amount in the name.
Example: .createstack goldcoin 1000

Createstackat
Syntax: .createstackat [objtype / itemdesc] [amount]
Function: Creates a stack of the specified objtype and amount at the location you target. Non-stackable items will only use one graphic, but show the amount in the name.
Example: .createstackat goldcoin 1000

Darken
Syntax: .darken
Function: Allows you to set the light level of the target to the darkest level possible (30)


Dart trap
Syntax: .darttrap
Function: Allows you to set a dart trap on a container


Explosion trap
Syntax: .explosiontrap
Function: Allows you to set an explosion trap on a container


GM Form
Syntax: .gm
Function: Sets you to the GM graphic and allows you to walk through doors


Go 
Syntax: .go [place] 
Function: Transport to the given location. New locations can be defined in the script. 
Example: .go green transports you to green acres.  


Goxyz 
Syntax: .goxyz [x] [y] [z] 
Function: Transport to the given coordinates.  
Notes: coordinates must be space-delimited. 


Hideme 
Syntax: .hideme 
Function: Hides yourself. Note that you will be unhidden for the same reasons as if you were using the hiding skill. The advantage to this is that none of the normal LOS or distance checks are made.  


Lockdown
Syntax: .lockdown 
Function: Makes the targeted item locked down(sets unmovable) by anyone with out the moveany priv


Lockradius
Syntax: .lockradius [radius]
Function: Locks down (sets unmovable by anyone with out the moveany priv) all items in the specified radius.


Log notify
Syntax: .lognotify
Function: sets or unsets whether or not you will be notified when players log in/out as well as their time online.


Mark
Syntax: .mark
Function: marks a targeted rune with your current x,y,z coordinates


Mpx
Syntax: .mpx [amount]
Function: allows you to modify an item or items x level up or down multiple times. To cancel hit ESC.


Mpy
Syntax: .mpy [amount]
Function: allows you to modify an item or items y level up or down multiple times. To cancel hit ESC.


Mpz
Syntax: .mpz [amount]
Function: allows you to modify an item or items z level up or down multiple times. To cancel hit ESC.


Openpack
Syntax: .openpack
Function: opens a targeted players backpack.


Poison trap
Syntax: .poisontrap
Function: Allows you to set a poison trap on a container


Px
Syntax: .px [amount]
Function: allows you to modify an item's x level up or down.


Py
Syntax: .py [amount]
Function: allows you to modify an item's y level up or down.


Pz
Syntax: .pz [amount]
Function: allows you to modify an item's z level up or down.


Recall
Syntax: .recall
Function: Allows you to recall to a targeted runes marked x,y,z coordinates.


Refreshme 
Syntax: .refreshme 
Function: Refills your hp, mana, and stamina  
Note: Use .nsight to get nightsight.


Rename 
Syntax: .rename [newname] 
Function: Renames the targetted object to the given newname. Use this instead of ".setprop name blah"  


Sayabove 
Syntax: .sayabove [text] 
Function: Prints the given text above the targetted object for all to see. 


Sayabovepvt 
Syntax: .sayabovepvt [text] 
Function: Prints the text above the targetted object for you to see only.  


Setbook
Syntax: .setbook
Function: an administrative tool that allows a GM to change properties of a book such as the book's graphic and whether or not a player can edit it.


Setintproperty 
Syntax: .setobjproperty [propname] [integer value] 
Function: Sets a property of the given name and value on the targetted object. (Value is an integer)


Setlight 
Syntax: .setlight [region name] [amount] 
Function: Changes the global light level in the given region name (see regions.cfg for names) to the given amount (0-15)  


Shelfe
Syntax: .shelfe
Function: creates and registers a bookspawning bookcase facing east.


Shelfs
Syntax: .shelfs
Function: creates and registers a bookspawning bookcase facing south.


Teleto
Syntax: .teleto 
Function: Teleports targeted player to the targeted tile.


Where 
Syntax: .where 
Function: Prints your current coordinates.  


GM Commands
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Action 
Syntax: .action [number] 
Function: Forces the targetted mobile to perform the given action (i.e. bow, breathe fire..)  
Notes: Use decimal or prepend with "0x" to use Hex. 


Addset
Syntax: .addset
Function: takes a group of items in a given area and records their layout so that same pattern can be duplicated as needed. Recreate the items using the .makeset [name] command


Addtele
Syntax: .addtele
Function: add a system teleporter


Attack
Syntax: .attack
Function: forces a targetd npc to attack another npc or player.


Bow
Syntax: .bow
Function: Forces all npcs and players with a human graphic to bow.


Buzz 
Syntax: .buzz 
Function: Give the targetted human a buzzcut (i.e. remove hair)  


Campspawner
Syntax: .campspawner
Function: creates roaming critter camps (orcs, lizardmen, ratmen, bandits or gypsies) with a defineable number of critters, a locked, trapped, and filled treasure chest, as well as some standard camp items.. once a user defined amount of time has passed, the camp will relocate itself 50 tiles in a random direction and respawn all the necessary components.


Chestspawner
Syntax: .chestspawner
Function: creates a treasure chest spawner that will take user settings and spawn filled, locked, and trapped treasure chests with user defineable loot.


Control
Syntax: .control
Function: Accesses the list of registered packages and brings up a gump to access them from.


Createnode
Syntax: .createnode
Function: Creates a merchant or banker node.
Notes: See readme for info on setting up merchants.


Crim
Syntax: .crim [1/0]
Function: Sets a targetd players criminal status on or off.


D
Syntax: .d
Function: Gm concealme command with a cool falling rock effect.


Destroy 
Syntax: .destroy 
Function: Destroys the targetted item.  


Destroyboat
Syntax: .destroyboat
Function: Destroys the targetted boat by targeting the tillerman.


Destroymulti
Syntax: .destroymulti
Function: Destroys the house you are in.


Dmany
Syntax: .dmany
Function: Destroys the all items with in a 1 tile radius of targeted location.


E
Syntax: .e [conceal]
Function: Cool sparkle and flamestrike effect. If you send a flag (ie, type
.e conceal), it will also conceal you in the process.


Ekill
Syntax: .ekill [effect]
Function: this command plays a moving effect, then kills the target.


Equip
Syntax: .equip
Function: forces a targeted npc or player to equip a targeted item.


Eraseglobal
Syntax: .eraseglobal [propname]
Function: Deletes a global property


Eraseobjproperty 
Syntax: .eraseobjproperty [propname] 
Function: Erases the given property from the targetted Object.  


Freeze 
Syntax: .freeze 
Function: Paralyzes the targetted mobile. Use .thaw to undo.  


Getglobal 
Syntax: .getglobal [propname] 
Function: Prints the value of the given global property.  


Getprop 
Syntax: .getprop [propname] 
Function: Prints the value of the given object property.


Getscript 
Syntax: .getscript
Function: Prints the AI script thats attached to the targeted NPC.


Getstatic
Syntax: .getstatic
Function: Prints the objtype of the targeted location.


Getusescript
Syntax: .getusescript
Function: Prints the use script thats attached to the targeted item.


GFchart
Syntax: .gfchart
Function: Displays a 640x480 GUMP colour-chart.


GMpage
Syntax: .gmpage
Function: Displayes the page que for GMs.


GMTools
Syntax: .gmtools
Function: Opens the gmtools utility which includes various utilities to make a gms life easier.


Goserial
Syntax: .goserial [serial number]
Function: Teleports you to x,y,z coordiantes of item with attached serial number.


Hide
Syntax: .hide
Function: Sets the hidden property on a targeted item.


Ident 
Syntax: .ident 
Function: Prints the serial and objtype of the targetted object.  


Info
Syntax: .info
Function: Displays and edits various information about a targeted player or npc such as stats, skills ect.


Ip
Syntax: .ip
Function: Prints the ip address of the targeted player.


Iteminfo
Syntax: .iteminfo
Function: Displays and edits various information about a targeted item.


Jump
Syntax: .jump [Direction]
Function: Moves a player 59 tiles in a given direction (N,S,E,W).  Useful for setting up guard nodes.


Kick 
Syntax: .kick 
Function: Disconnects the targetted player from the server.  


Kill 
Syntax: .kill 
Function: Kills targeted player or NPC.


Lkill 
Syntax: .lkill 
Function: Plays lightning bolt effect on player or NPC then kills them.


Lock 
Syntax: .lock 
Function: Sets the "locked" property on the targetted container to true.  
Notes: The original key will still open the container. 


Makekey
Syntax: .makekey
Function: Makes a key to match lock of targeted door or container.
Notes: Will only work on doors and containers.


Makeregs 
Syntax: .makeregs [amount]
Function: Creates a bag in your pack with specified amount of each type of reagent in it.  
Notes: If no amount is specified, 20 of each will be created.


Makeset
Syntax: .makeset [name]
Function: creates a group of items that were created using the addset command.


Maketele
Syntax: .maketele
Function: creates a teleporter from the location you are standing at to the location of a marked rune.


Mdestroy
Syntax: .mdestroy [range]
Function: destroys all items with in the set range around your character.


Meplayer
Syntax: .meplayer
Function: Sets your cmdlevel to 0 (player).


Mflip
Syntax: .mflip
Function: changes the direction of an item or items multiple times. Hit ESC to cancel.


Moveitem 
Syntax: .moveitem 
Function: Moves the targetted item to a new position.


Movetocont 
Syntax: .movetocont 
Function: Moves the targetted item to a new container.  


Myform 
Syntax: .myform 
Function: Changes you back to the human male graphic.  
Notes: Good if you somehow change your graphic to an invisible one and cant target yourself to change back. 


Powerdown
Syntax: .powerdown
Function: Sets all your skills to 0.


Powerup 
Syntax: .powerup 
Function: Sets all your skills to 100.


Propedit
Syntax: .propedit 
Function: displays a list of all props associated with an Character or Item for editing.


Recreate
Syntax: .recreate
Function: Kills and recreates the targetted NPC.


Regionmanager
Syntax: .regionmanger
Function: Displays the regionmanager gump to edit regional npc spawns.  Spawns can be added, edited and deleted on the fly.


Rekey	
Syntax: .rekey
Function: creates a new lock and key for the targeted door.


Relock
Syntax: .relock
Function: creates a newlock on targeted door to match targeted key.


Res 
Syntax: .res 
Function: Resurrect the targetted player.


Resme 
Syntax: .resme 
Function: Resurrects yourself.  


Restartregionmanager
Syntax: .restartregionmanager
Function: Restarts the region manager.


Savenow 
Syntax: .savenow 
Function: Forces a worldsave.  


Seehidden
Syntax: .seehidden
Function: shows hidden system teleporters


Setglobalprop
Syntax: .setglobalprop [propname] [value]
Function: sets an global property.


Setmovable 
Syntax: .setmovable [0 or 1] 
Function: Sets the targetted item to movable (1) or not (0).  


Setobjproperty 
Syntax: .setobjproperty [propname] [value] 
Function: Sets a property of the given name and value on the targetted object.  


Setprop 
Syntax: .setprop [propname] [value] 
Function: Sets the given property to the given value. 


Setscript
Syntax: .setscrpt [script name]
Function: sets the specified Ai script to the targeted npc.


Setskill 
Syntax: .setskill [skill#] [amount] 
Function: Sets the given skill number to the given amount.  


Settextprop 
Syntax: .settextprop [propname] [value] 
Function: Sets the given property to the given text value. 


Setusescript
Syntax: .setscrpt [script name]
Function: sets the specified use script to the targeted item.


Sfx 
Syntax: .Sfx [number] 
Function: Play the given sound number to those in the vicinity, centered around you.  


Shave 
Syntax: .shave 
Function: Shaves off the targetted human's facial hair.  


Showstats 
Syntax: .showstats 
Function: Prints the str, int, and dex above the targetted mobile.  
Notes: Faster than using getprop. 


Spellbook 
Syntax: .spellbook 
Function: Creates a full spellbook in your pack.  


Squelch
Syntax: .squelch [minutes]
Function Squelches (Silences) a players for the specified amount of time.


Strip
Syntax: .strip
Function strips all items from a targeted player or npc.


Summon
Syntax: .summon [name]
Function summons the specified player to you. if no player is named a list of online players will be displayed to choose from.


Tame 
Syntax: .tame 
Function: Artificially tames the targetted NPC.  


Thaw 
Syntax: .thaw 
Function: Unfreezes the frozen target (frozen from .freeze command).  


Thawme 
Syntax: .thawme 
Function: Unfreezes yourself.  


Tile
Syntax: .tile [obj number] [z level]
Function: This is a "fastbuild" command and is great for putting down floors etc.


Unlock 
Syntax: .Unlock 
Function: Sets the "locked" property on the targetted container to false.  


Unlockradius
Syntax: .unloackradius [range]
Function: Sets everything within the given radius to movable.


Whereship 
Syntax: .whereship 
Function: Prints the coordinates of the ship by targetting the ship key.  


Wipebank 
Syntax: .wipebank 
Function: Empties the bankbox of the targetted player.  


Writequip 
Syntax: .writequip 
Function: Writes the equipped items of the targetted mobile to equip.cfg for later use with "equipt"  


Admin Commands
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Addbook
Syntax: .addbook
Function: Adds targeted book to the datafiles to be spawned with the book spawner.


Booklock
Syntax: .booklock
Function: Makes targeted book readonly.


Bookspawntest
Syntax: .bookspawntest
Function: Fills the targeted Spawnning bookcase (created with .shelfe and .shelfs) with books.


Booksweep
Syntax: .booksweep
Function: manual spawner that fills all the book spawning bookcases created with the shelfe or shelfs commands.  Basically this script just forces the respawn of all registered book spawners... 


Critterpurge
Syntax: .critterpurge
Function: kills all nontamed npcs within a 20 tile radius.


Dyehair
Syntax: .dyehair
Function: displays a menu of haircolors to to change current haircolor.


Forgive
Syntax: .forgive
Function: Removes all murders(long term and shortterm) from a player as well as perma red status and criminal status.


Grantpriv 
Syntax: .grantpriv [priv] 
Function: Grants an access privlage to a targetted character.  


Gzone
Syntax: .gzone
Function: Informs you if you are within a guardzone or not.


MakeMoongates 
Syntax: .makemoongates 
Function: Creates the 8 world moongates.  


Newaccount
Syntax: .newaccount [Username] [password]
Function: Creates a new user account using the specified name and password.


Nodewipe
Syntax: .nodewipe
Function: Destroys all merchant and guardnodes throughout the world.


NPCwipe 
Syntax: .npcwipe 
Function: Kills all mobiles in the world. Including online players.  


Release
Syntax: .release
Function: Unlocks and makes movable all locked down items within the given multi (House or boat).


Restart 
Syntax: .restart 
Function: Restarts the targetted NPC's AI script.  


Restart All 
Syntax: .restartall
Function: Restarts all NPC's AI scripts in the world.


Revokepriv 
Syntax: .revokepriv [priv] 
Function: Revokes an access privlage from a targetted character.  


Setcmdlevel 
Syntax: .setcmdlevel [level] 
Function: Grants a new access level to the targetted player.  


Setmurder
Syntax: .setmurder [ 0 / 1 ]
Function: Toggles a targeted players murderer status on or off.


Storebook
Syntax: .storebook
Function: Stores the contents of targeted book into ::bookstorage


Unloadcfg 
Syntax: .unloadcfg [filename] 
Function: Forces POL to re-read a config file without restarting.  
Notes: Do not append filename with ".cfg" 


Test Commands
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Clock
Syntax: .clock
Function: displays the ingame time.


Firestorm
Syntax:  .firestorm
Function: Kills all Non Invul NPCs with a nice meteorstorm effect.


Getmapinfo
Syntax: .getmapinfo
Function: Returns the tile info of a targeted static map tile (X,y,z and tile graphic).


getobjprop
syntax: .getobjprop [prop name]
Function: Returns the value of  the specified cprop of an item.  If no prop exist an error is returned.


Getregionstring
Syntax: .getregionstring [region name]
Function: 


Itemcount
Syntax: .itemcount
Function: Returns the total number of items in a targeted container.


Killmods
Syntax: .killmods
Function: Removes all stat, ar and skill mods on the targeted player.


KillPID
Syntax: .killpid [serial]
Function: Kills a current running script. PID is shown in the console.
Notes: Useful to kill runaway scripts.


Landtile
Syntax: .landtile
Function: Returns the graphic of the targeted land tile.


Openit
Syntax: .openit
Function: opens the targeted container.


Smember
Syntax: .smember [member name]
Function: Returns the value of the specified member of the targeted item or character.
Example .smember weight


Startscript
Syntax: .startscript [script name]
Function: Starts specified script


Worldheight
Syntax: .worldheight [ X , Y ]
Function: Returns the world height of the specified x,y coordinates.

