Guard Nodes:
  The Guard Node is objtype 0x887b.
  Overview:
    guard nodes are items used to control and spawn guards in all the cities.
  Features:
    guard nodes listen to speech events in a radius of 30 tiles.
    guard nodes search for criminals in a radius of 30 tiles.
    guard nodes recieve events from merchant nodes.
    guard nodes send events to nearby guards to attack criminals
    guards do not listen directly for guard calls, so they consume less 
      CPU cycles
    guards do listen for certain keywords at a very close range. so a player
      must be close to them to get a response
    guard nodes spawn their own guards as needed, and will replace any guards
      that may be killed in the line of duty.
    it is very difficult to kill a town guard as they will heal and cure
      themselves if they reach half health or are poisoned
  Installation:
    guard nodes must be setup in a grid in all guard protected cities..
    since guard nodes have a listen range of 30 tiles diamater, they should 
      be placed in the following manner:
      place nodes from the west side of town to the east.
      find the town border and travel east 30 tiles
      then find the north border and travel south 30 tiles
      place a node there, the node will spawn its own guard
      then travel 60 tiles south and place another node (30 tile radius 
        for each node)
      continue until you reach the south border of town
      any guard nodes that extend past the town border will only work within
        the actual town limits, so you dont have to worry about extending past 
        town limits. 
      (Guard zones are defined in config/gzone.cfg.)
      for each node you have placed continue the above grid to the east till you
        hit the east edge of town. once you fill in the grid, your town will be 
        completely covered.
Merchant Nodes:
  The Merchant Node is objtype 0x887a.
  Overview:
    merchant nodes handle all speech events for npcs that interact regularly with
      players. bankers, stablemasters, and all normal merchants are controlled
      under this system. These npcs WILL NOT interact with players if they are
      not controlled by a merchant node.

  Features:
    merchant nodes control all vendor restocking, and will queu restock cycles so 
      they dont happen all at once, thus distributing system load over a longer 
      period of time.
    merchant nodes do all listening for their linked merchants.. the merchants 
      themselves no longer handle speech events.. This results in lower overall
      CPU utilization and much more user-friendly interaction for the players in
    Only the closest npc within LOS and no greater than 4 tiles away from
      the player will recieve the speech event, so you can always choose
      which npc you wish to interact by positioning yourself closest to him.
    vendors will keep items sold to them from players, and will alter the buy/sell
      price of those items to reflect quality and condition. If a vendor does not
      sell the item after 2 restock cycles, he will liquidate the items back into
      gold currency to use for replenishing his stock and buying new goods.. 
    vendors have a limited amount of gold to work with.. as a vendor buys and sells
      goods, his pool of available gold will increase or decrease.. players that
      sell tons of items to npcs will find that the npc cannot afford to purchase
      anymore, and may not be able to afford to restock his normal stock items
      (vendors spend their profit to restock their own regular inventory). once a 
      vendor runs out of money, he must sell some of his current stock before he
      can restock to normal levels..
    when a vendor sells out of a particular item in a given stock cycles, he will
      attempt to purchase an increased amount during his next restock.. this amount
      may increase up to 20 X his base value.. if a vendor does not sell the
      elevated items, he will stop stocking them until he reaches his base inventory
      and then continue from that base.. 
  Installation:
    to install a merchant node, you must know the following information before you 
    begin:
      largest radius of the room to monitor. this can be determined by standing in
      the exact center of the room and counting the tiles to the farthest wall.
      keep in mind that the nodes check line of sight, so for buildings that are not
      rectangular, you must base your centering on the assumption that the building
      is rectangular. once you have your radius figure, you must create your npcs..
      note that npcs are designed to be permanent and should not be created with a 
      spawner, just use .createnpc.
      once the npcs are created, you can use the .createnode command to begin setting
      up the node.
    creation:
      the createnode gump is pretty straight forward. simply fill in the radius in
      the spot provided and choose wether the node controls merchants or bankers.
      setting a node to "banker" will cause the node to not attempt to run restock
      so do not use this setting on normal merchants.
      the "next respawn" field is the amount of time between restocks in minutes.
      each npc will restock his inventory on that interval. the default of 30 minutes
      is recommended for all merchants except reagent vendors which seem to work best
      at 12 minute restock intervals.
      once all the relevant information is entered, choose "okay".
      the first target cursor is for selecting where the cursor appears.. this must be
      set at the center of the room, even if it is within a wall or outside the actual 
      building. once the node is placed, after the node is placed, another cursor will 
      appear, these cursors must be targeted once each on the merchants/bankers that
      you have previously created. once you have targeted all the npcs you wish that
      node to control, cancel the cursors and the node should turn green.. once the 
      node turns green, it is active and ready to use.. if the node turns purple, it 
      means the node is improperly configured and must be destroyed and recreated.
      Soon a more user friendly version that is easier to setup will be released in 
      a distro service pack.
      
    
    