Implementing virtue gain and loss.

Though initially, most, if not all, of the information contained in this document was taken from UO Guide
(http://www.uoguide.com/Virtues), it is my hope that it will be used as a starting point for implementing
a more complete virtue system for the Distro. I have left out a lot more information about the virtues,
in particular the shrines because this document is longer than I thought it would be when I started
creating it and also because this document is primarily concerned with gaining and losing in a virtue.


Compassion
Note: The following information on Compassion is taken directly from UO Guide (uoguide.com/Compassion).
Any reference to spawn locations, gains, or time limits is official OSI and may not apply to the Distro
implementation. It is included here for the purpose of developing ideas for implementation.

Gaining in the Virtue of Compassion is accomplished by escorting NPCs or Prisoners to their requested
destination. This is done either via Gate Travel or simply walking and will reward you with 500 gold and
rogress towards achieving a level of Compassion. Rescuing Prisoners from NPC brigand camps, orcs, lizardmen
etc. will reward you with more progress (roughly double) than NPC's escorted from towns.

As you make progress, the dots at the top of the Virtue of Compassion status gump will begin to fill after
completed escorts or rescues. When all ten dots are completed per level, you advance a level in the Virtue.
At each completed level of Compassion, the Virtue icon will fill-in with a darker color and the title will
change to indicate your current level of achievement when you mouse-over the Virtue icon from the main Virtue
menu. Your level of achievement in each Virtue is publicly viewable by other players if they double-click the
Virtue menu in your paperdoll.

Higher levels of Compassion confer increasingly higher benefits, which is discussed below. You can only gain
from five NPCs per 24 hours, therefore rescuing prisoners will speed your progress versus doing just town escorts.
Additionally, after you have completed five in a 24 hour window, there will be a system messaging indicating you
must wait a day until you will gain again (although you can still continue doing more that day, but will only
receive the gold reward).

As of January 24, 2000 you can only escort or rescue one NPC at a time. Once you have achieved the highest level
of Compassion, a system message will be displayed indicating "You have achieved the highest path of compassion
and can no longer gain any further". This maximum cap will be roughly one dot's worth of gains past Knight of Compassion.

Research shows that using the fastest method of prisoner rescues, i.e., a gate casting mage, you will perform roughly:

    2 NPC prisoner rescues per dot working towards Seeker of Compassion (Level 1)
    3 NPC prisoner rescues per dot working towards Follower of Compassion (Level 2)
    4 NPC prisoner rescues per dot working towards Knight of Compassion (Level 3)

At each level of Compassion, people resurrected by you will return to life with additional hit points
(without Compassion, they resurrect with just one hit point). Resurrections by either the Magery spell of Resurrection
or from bandages with the Healing skill will add the additional hit points. At this time, resurrections via
the Chivalry spell of Noble Sacrifice do not confer the hit point bonuses of Compassion. (How about resurrections through Sacrifice?)

Additional hit point bonuses after resurrections from a player with Compassion:

    Seeker of Compassion (Level 1): 20% of their hit points restored
    Follower of Compassion (Level 2): 40% of their hit points restored
    Knight of Compassion (Level 3): 80% of their hit points restored

At only 25-30 minutes a day for a few weeks working on raising Compassion, its not really that much of an effort.
Additionally, at 500 gold per escort, doing escorts is a safe, easy and profitable way for new players to make gold.

The fastest and easiest way to gain in compassion is to drink a bottle of Compassion Sage daily.
Drinking one bottle can give as much compassion as 5 NPC escorts.

As a side note, there are often several NPC brigand camps (many with Prisoners to rescue) on the little island just
outside of Trinsic to the east. There is also a jail cell which always spawns a prisoner in the Orc Cave to the
northwest of Britain.

As a minor note, there is a five minute time limit (lowered from 15 minutes on June 29, 2000) between escort quests.
Prisoners found in NPC brigand camps and the orc dungeon used to be available for immediate rescue, but this was changed
to the standard 5 minute timer in late 2010. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Honesty
Lost items are spawned on the ground in Felucca and Trammel.
Lost items are facet specific, ie. the owner of an item spawned in Felucca will live in Felucca and vice versa.
They are never spawned in dungeons or within guard zones.
The items will bear the text  "Lost Item (Return To Gain Honesty)."

Once a player picks up the item he has 3 hours to return it.
Presumably you are given this message when it is picked up
"You have three hours to turn this item in for Honesty credit, otherwise it will cease to be a quest item.".

It can be returned to any "virtue" city (Britain, Yew, Moonglow, Trinsic, Skara Brae, New Magincia, Jhelom and Minoc)
for Honesty credit. There are Lost and Found boxes located in the banks in each town. If the owner of the item hails
from the town it is returned to, the player receives double credit. If it is returned to the actual owner the player
receives quadruple credit.

Forensic Evaluation is almost essential to helping to gain honesty. A value of around 40 in forensics will reveal the
town. A value of about 65 will reveal the owner as well.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Honor
When activated via the Virtues Menu, you may target a given creature that is entirely undamaged (that is, it's Hit Points,
Stamina and Mana levels must be at their maximum). It could originally be used against players in addition to creatures,
though this was removed in a later publish.

If you then kill the creature you are granted honor in accordance to its fame level and how "honorably" you fought it.
Allowing your target the first blow and staying close to it will grant you higher levels of honor than using ranged attacks
from a distance. For tamers, stay close, do not cast spells (they will lower your gain). Daemons will get you well into the
Follower level, Balrons are good for reaching Knight, some would suggest Succubi, but their area attack can be bothersome.

Honor is an excellent complement to Taming. Building Honor will allow you to tame pets without being attacked.
The follower level will keep you safe for 90 seconds and the Knight level will provide 5 minutes of unmolested taming
(very useful with Greater Dragons). Stay just off screen from your intended target, Activate the virtue, a macro key of
[invoke virtue][honor] works well, or the pentagram on the top of the paperdoll, double click the Honor button and target yourself
and click ok. Word of warning, if the intended pet targets you before you click the OK gump, you will be attacked, and you must hide
to reset it.

Honor works hand in hand with Bushido in that activating it with a skill of 50 points or more also initiates the Perfection system.

It also allows you to return to a monster infested area to retrieve your items off your dead body.

Rewards
The reward for honorable combat is the ability to move amongst monsters without them becoming hostile to you. To do this,
you must activate the virtue and target yourself. The effect ends after a certain time or when you next perform a hostile action.
According to developer Logrus, using Honor on oneself grants a shortly durated damage bonus of 25% (source: Stratics UO Warrior Profession Forum).

You can invoke honor once every 5 minutes. The duration it lasts depends on how high your honor is. A knight of Honor will last 3 times as long
as a seeker. This virtue only drains as you use it (as opposed to others such as Valor, which drain over time).

When using the Bushido skill Honorable Execution on an honored opponent, if successful you will be granted an honorable damage bonus.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Justice
Justice is one of the virtues for which there is a game mechanic. The only way to earn Justice is through PVP combat by killing murderers.
Justice is expended at Champion Spawns to increase the number of Power Scrolls that are awarded.

Gaining Justice
Justice is awarded to the person who delivers the killing blow to a murderer, or red, character in Felucca. There is a timeframe of 5 minutes
between being able to receive Justice again. This is to prevent people from "farming" Justice by continuously res-killing a red.

The amount of Justice gained from each kill varies with the amount of skill points of the killed character and the level of Justice their killer
is currently at. After each kill, a message stating "You have gained in Justice" will be displayed. Once you have fully maxed out the number
progress points you can earn a message will be displayed stating "You cannot gain more Justice" which for Justice is two kills past reaching
the Knight level.

Roughly speaking, killing a skill capped murderer will award up to 3 progress points while attaining Seeker of Justice, a point and a half
while working towards Follower of Justice and a point for each kill while attaining Knight level.

Expending Justice
Justice allows you to "protect" another player in Felucca. While one is under the protection of another, the protector has a chance of receiving
a Scroll of Power when the recipient receives one. The chance of receiving a "protection scroll" depends on your Justice level.

        Seeker of Justice: 60% chance of scroll
        Follower of Justice: 80% chance of scroll
        Knight of Justice: 100% chance of scroll

The maximum number of scrolls that can be received from the Champion is 12 (6 from the Champion itself, 6 from Justice protection).
The protection system is used in the vast majority of Feluccan Champion spawns as a way to maximize the profitability of a spawn.
Felucca champ guilds often consider receiving 12 scrolls as the mark for a successful spawn. It is virtually unheard of for established guilds
to use anyone below Knight of Justice for the protector. Protection scroll distribution is a spot of contention in many guilds.
There are many different methods of scroll distribution with many people trumpeting the benefits and disadvantages of their own.

It is a common misconception that the protection scroll will be a duplicate of the recipient's scroll, at least in intensity if not the covered skill.
This is not the case. The scroll received by the protector is random.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sacrifice
Sacrifice is a Virtue that is gained through sacrificing all of one's Fame to a monster in order to redeem it. The monster will
then recognize its wrong-doing and vanish into thin air. The monsters you can sacrifice to include Demons, Enslaved Gargoyles,
Evil Mages, Gargoyle Enforcers, Liches and Succubi. In order to sacrifice to a monster it has to be completely unharmed.
You also must have a minimal amount of fame, which is greater than 2000, probably 4000 total.

Sacrificing may only be done once per 24 hour period. You have to be at least "Great" to be able to sacrifice - the higher your
reputation level, the further you advance on your Virtue path. Sacrificing a Lord/Lady title will yield far more progress than
just a Great or Glorious status. Also, the more powerful a monster is you sacrifice to, the more you gain. You will have no fame
remaining after a successful sacrifice.

Once per week your Sacrifice level will drop by a small amount automatically.

Alternatively, a small amount can also be gained by completing the quest given by Grizelda the Hag. Completing the Hag's Quest a few
times a week will counter the weekly losses in Sacrifice, so that you don't have to lose all your well earned fame regularly.

Rewards
The reward for your sacrifice is the ability to Resurrect yourself. For each level you reach on your way, you will be able to do so
once a week. Thus as a Knight of Sacrifice (level 3) you can resurrect yourself 3 times a week.

After resurrecting yourself you will find all your belongings back in your backpack, except for any items that were looted in the time
it took you to resurrect. The items will not be returend if you crossed a serverline (e.g. walked out of a dungeon) before resurrection.
A message will warn you if this is the case.

It is wise to only use this ability when in an emergency. You will not lose any virtue by doing so, but only one of your weekly resurrections. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Valor
Valor is the Virtue that enables characters to start a Champion Spawn. When the third level, or Knight of Valor, is reached, the character can
invoke the virtue and target a Champion Spawn altar, thus activating it.

Altars can be targeted only once per spawn: to activate it if inactive, or to add more red candles according to the user's amount of Valor.
The higher the amount of Valor, the better the chance to gain more red candles. Altar advancing is often used to finish the harder levels more quickly,
especially at the Lord Oaks, Semidar and Neira spawns.

Valor is obtained by killing creatures in a Champion Spawn. One random Felluca spawn will activate upon server-up so Valor may be obtained to
start the rest of the altars.

Valor can be gained at Ilshenar Champion Spawns, as well as the new Mondain's Legacy champion spawns. However, it does not appear that Valor
can be gained in the Labyrinth.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Humility
Not much to be found UO Guide about this one but here is the pertinent info.

Humility by killing evil-aligned creatures during the Humility Hunt.

Reward
When activated via the Virtues Menu the player receives a targeting cursor. Targeting a pet will provide that pet with a 20 minute
Hit Point Regeneration buff based on Humility path and consume some Humility points:

    Seeker: +10 HPR
    Follower: +20 HPR
    Knight: +30 HPR


Spirituality
Spirituality is gained by using targeted heals and resurrections on other players including bandages, close wounds, heal, greater heal,
gift of renewal, cleansing winds, and rejuvenate. Spirituality is expended through the virtue menu, double click the humility virtue to
bring up a targeting cursor. 

Reward
Targeting a living player or pet will grant a Spirituality shield that will absorb incoming damage based on Spirituality path and
consume some Spirituality points,

    Seeker: 5% shield, with 50 shield HP
    Follower: 10% shield, with 100 shield HP
    Knight: 20% shield, with 200 shield HP
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	
	
