<BIG>How to use the 'staticdeed' command.</BIG>

This package is written in such a way that you can provide unattended purchasing of houses by players.
This requires some initial set-up by staff members and is not necessary for it to be used. For servers
with limited online staff, unattended purchasing doesn't require players to page a GM and wait around to
buy a house. Something which caused great frustration on the server I started out playing on.

You must be in "GM mode", able to walk through doors, to use this command!
Also, you should set your 'Circle of transpaency' in you client's settings to 104 or greater in order 
to see through the South East wall for accurate targetting.

Creating the For Sale sign for a static house is the same whichever way you choose to implement it,
unattended or attended. Either way the procedure for "deeding" out a static house is the same.
Use the text command 'staticdeed'. The process is fairly well documented as you go through the steps.

It's best to start from the lowest level of the house you intend to make availble for sale.

You will first be presented with a gump where you pick the sign type and the orientation of the sign.
You will then be prompted to target the North West, upper, corner of the floor you are on. Once you do that
you will be prompted to target the South East corner. After that is done you will be presented with a gump
to select how many levels this will apply to. If the house is 1 storey pick 1. If it's 2 or more 
storeys and they are all the same size as the first area you can pick the number of levels and go on. You may also
choose to only make the first level available for purchase and then you would choose 1 as the number of levels.
This is particularly useful if you have structures that have separate entrances for each level and no way,
from the inside, to get to another level. Also you can make rooms at the inns available for sale this way.
For example if you want to make a room on the second floor of an inn available for purchase you would
go up to that room and enter the command staticdeed choose your sign, target the corners and select 1 for
the numbere of levels.

Now let's suppose you have a house with a large first level but the second level is half the size of the
first level. Go ahead and do the targeting for the first level. Select 1 as the number of levels. You are
next presented with a target and asked to target the NW corner again. Go up to the smaller second level and go though
the targeting procedure and when you are presented with the gump asking for the number of levels choose the number
that applies, probably 1.

This system can also be used for odd shaped houses such as those 'L' shaped houses or the house in Skara Brae
that is shaped like a plus sign, +. Just go through the targetting process for each section. Try not to overlap
sections. I do not know if overlapped sections will cause any problems but best not to tempt fate.

When you are laying out the first floor of a house you are not limited to just the interior of the structure.
You may include an area around the exterior of the house as well. I used to include an extra square around the
house by targetting just outside the North West and South East corners or, in the case of those 'L' shaped houses, 
I would just map the 'yard area', the exterior quadrant of the exterior, as part of the house. Naturally the price was a 
little higher because of it but the players got something in return, a yard they could use for other things.

Once you are done mapping out the house press <esc> at the targetting cursor. You will be presented with a gump showing the
price per square, number of secure containers allowed, and the number of lockdowns allowed. You may be able to edit
some or all of those values. That abiity is enabled in the settings.cfg file for this package. When you are satisfied
with the values, assuming you have the ability to change them, click 'okay'. Next you will be asked where to place
the sign. Pick a good location where it is easily accessible. After that you will be asked to target the exterior doors.
Target ALL doors that allow entrance from the outside. Do not target any doors on the interior of the house!
Once you have selected all the exterior doors press <esc> again. The house is now ready for purchase with the price
and number of secures and lockdowns listed on the sign. Just hover your mouse over it or single cilick on it to see
the information. To buy it the player simply double-clicks on the sign, answers "yes" to the gump, and if she has enough
gold, either in her backpack or in her bank chest, she can buy it. She must have enough gold in one place or the other.
The system does not combine gold in the backpack and bank box to equal the price of the house.

