Instructions for player's use of the static housing system.

Hello and welcome to your new house. I have tried to make this system as familiar and easy to use for those who have used other
housing systems. Hopefully I have done it right. This is by no means a comprehensive explanation of all of the features 
in this package. Instead I will try to cover items that might be new or slightly different from other housing systems 
you may have used.

I wish to thank, and give credit to, those from whom I have borrowed heavily to create this package. Bishop Ebonhand, 
who created the first static housing system and also created the second version that I used to create this system. The other 
person, or group, that deserves thanks is Drocket and the original World of Dreams development team from whom I got the 
idea for unattended house sales. If your server admin has set-up the static houses for sale in advance, the ability to buy 
a house unaided, without waiting on a GM to respond to a page to set-up the house for purchase, is extremely convenient.
Admin Yukiko.

Here is a list of definitions that are useful to know.

The owner: This is pretty obvious. It's the person who bought the house, probably you.

Co-owners: These are characters you have added to your co-owners list. Currently co-owners have only a few extra privileges 
compared to house friends. You may have up to 5 co-owners on your list.

Friends: These are characters you have added to your friends list. You may have up to 20 house friends on your list.

House Affiliates: The Owner, Co-owners, and Friends of the house are house affiliates.

House affiliates have various privileges based on their level. The level in order of highest to lowest is:
Owner, Co-owner, and Friend. Pretty obvious huh?

Secure container: This is a special 'property' that is assigned to a container, which the owner may make available 
to house affiliates, that is secure and cannot be opened by anyone who is not a house affiliate. Secure containers 
can be assigned a 'security level'. Security levels are:
Owner     - only the owner may access the secure container.
Co-owner  - only co-owners may access the secure container.
Friends   - only friends may access the secure container.
Affiliate - any house affiliate may access the secure container.
The only exception to this is the owner who has universal access to ALL secure containers.
Owners, please use your right of access sparingly. Don't abuse it or you'll lose the trust of your friends.
It is provided in cases where you have a clear reason to inspect the contents 
of someone's container. For example if you suspect someone of stealing from other affiliates.

Ban tiles: There are invisible ban tiles placed inside every door. These tiles prevent anyone that you have banned or 
placed on your 'Enemy List' from entering your house. Think of them as invisible guardians that 'give the boot' to 
unwanted characters. Should a banned character step across the threshold of a door he will immediately be teleported 
outside to the sign and informed that he is not welcome.

House affiliates are assigned on a character by character basis and are not account wide. Alternate characters on an 
account must be added when that alternate character is logged in. Only characters with an account may be made a house 
affiliate. Sorry no NPCs.

House affiliates have one prevailing privilege to non affiliates. Being a house affiliate provides 'safe logout' 
or instant logout for them when they are inside of the house boundaries. Another benefit is they can be given access to 
'secure' containers.

There are several 'speech commands' that the house responds to.
They are listed below with the level of affiliate that can use them.

Available to all affilates:

remove thyself - You will get a target. The player you target will be removed from the house.
Note: This does not ban the player from re-entering the house later.

reveal thyself - This command will reveal any players within the house that are hidden.

Available to co-owners and owners:
i wish to lock this down - The item you target will be locked down and cannot be moved nor will it decay.

i wish to release this - The item you target will be released and can be moved and can decay.

i wish to place a trash barrel - This will place a trash barrel at your location. Only 1 trash barrel per house.

i ban thee - This will cause the targetted player to be ejected from the house and they will be placed on 
			 the house enemies list. The player will not be able to re-enter the house unless she is removed from 
			 the enemies list using the house sign by the owner or a co-owner.
			 
i wish to secure this - Use this command to secure a container. There are various levels of security which can 
             be applied to a secure container. If you say 'i wish to secure this for a coowner', friends of
			 the house will not have access to the container. The options are 'i wish to secure this for a friend',
			 'i wish to secure this for friends', 'i wish to secure this for a coowner',
			 'i wish to secure this for coowners', 'i wish to secure this for the owner', and 
			 'i wish to secure this for all'. Co-owners can also be spelled 'co-owner' or 'co-owners'.
			 If you do not specify the level of security and just say 'i wish to secure this' you will be 
			 presented with a gump where you must specify a security level. When you secure a container for 
			 'all', any house affiliate has access.

Depending on how this static housing system has been configured by the administrator, there may be a limit 
on the houses you may own. I have tried to make setting this limit as flexible as possible. As this is an 
option that can be enabled contact the staff of the server for more information.


The house sign provides additional functionality to your house. Briefly here are the things that can be 
done from the house sign:
Owners can change the name of the house, add co-owners, friends, and enemies to the lists. Owners can 
remove co-owners, friends, and enemies from the lists and they can rekey interior and exterior locks.

Co-owners can add friends, and enemies. Co-owners can remove friends and enemies from the lists.

Note: If a character is in the house when she is added to the enemy list she is 'booted out' to the 
sign and is banned from re-entry until she is removed from the enemy list.


Refeshing the house: I decided to take a different approach to the old method of using the doors to refresh the house.
Instead ban tiles do the job.  The owner or any co-owner walking on a ban tile also refreshes the decay timer on the house, thus 
extending the life of the house. Unlike other housing systems which use the doors as one method of refreshing 
the house. You will be notified that this has happened when the owner or co-owner walks over an invisible ban tile.
Also, double-clicking the sign and using house commands will refresh the decay timer.


This system also has, as an option, the placement of house teleproters. If the administrator of the server 
has enabled the option for players to place house teleporters in houses this can be done by acquiring a 
house teleporter kit. This kit will allow the player to place two teleporters. One 'origin' teleporter 
and one 'destination' teleporter. The teleporters are two-way despite the names. They may be placed 
in the same house or one may be placed in one house you own and the other in another house you own. 
Only the owner may place teleporters within a house. Access to the teleporters can be restricted by 
by double-clicking them which will open a gump with several options besides restricting access.
Only the owner can access the teleporter functions menu.
